C# and .NET Core
1. What are differences between .NET Framework and .NET Core.
2. Can you explain some new features from C# 7, 8,9 and 10 version?
3. What is garbage collector? What is its purpose? What are the different generations in
garbage collector?
4. What is the difference between value type and reference type variables? What is boxing
and unboxing in reference type variable?
5. What is meant by the terms managed resource and unmanaged resource in .NET
6. What is IDisposable interface and it’s dispose method, does it depend on garbage
collector and where would you use IDisposable interface?
7. What is Reflection? Give me examples of where you have used Reflection?
8. Explain Serialization and how can we achieve XML and JSON serialization
9. Explain different access modifiers in C#?
● public
● private
● protected
● internal
● protected internal
● private protected
10.Explain following keywords in C#
● static
● var
● sealed
● const vs readonly
● ref vs out
● yield
● record
● partial
● try catch finally
● using statement and using directive
● abstract
● override
● dynamic
11.Explain scenarios where you would use String vs StringBuilder?
12. Explain Object-Oriented Concepts (OOPS) in .NET with examples from your project
● Abstraction
● Encapsulation
● Inheritance
● Polymorphism
13.Compare virtual methods and abstract methods?
14.Differences between overloading and overriding?
15.What are generics and tell me scenarios where you have generics in your projects? What does generic constraints do?
16.What is the difference between a generic and a non-generic collection? What are the different collection classes in C#?
17.Why do you think we need an abstract class, why do you need an interface? Give few
examples, where you have used abstract classes and interfaces in your project.
18.What are extension methods and give me examples of built-in extension methods.
Have you created an extension method in your project? If yes, how with examples?
19.What are lambda expressions, where have u used lambda expressions
20.Tell what is LINQ? And give me scenarios where you have used LINQ in your projects.
21.Differed Execution and immediate execution in LINQ?
22.Write LINQ, GroupBy, Join, and Where conditions.
23.Differences between First, FirstOrDefault, Single, SingleOrDefault in LINQ
24.Anonymous types and methods
25.What are delegates in .NET, and can you tell differences between Func, Action and Predicate.
26.What is difference between IEnumerable and IQueryable
27.Explain async and await keywords in C#. Give me scenarios where you have you used
in your projects?
28.Do you know how can we make HTTP Requests in C#? Can you explain what
IHttpContextAccessor is?
29.Difference between Task vs Thread vs Process
30.What does lock keyword does? Give me example of it where you have used?
31.Can you tell difference between Task.WhenAll and Task.WhenAny?
32.What’s is the purpose of ConfigureAwait() ?
33.What’s the difference between asynchronous programming and Multithreaded programming?
asynchronous programming is a way to pause and resume tasks without blocking the main thread, it may use one or multiple threads,
while multithreaded programming is executing multiple threads at the same time, it always use multiple threads